The Octavian Foundation for the Arts
PO Box 2555
Hammond, LA, 70404
(337)764-7434
admin@theoctavians.org
theoctavians.org
Dear Potential Sponsor,
The Octavian Foundation for the Arts, or more simply The New Octavians, need your help! The New Octavians are looking for supporters
to help fund our current and future programs.
The Octavian Foundation for the Arts is a non-profit performing arts academy in Hammond that offers music and theatre education, and
community theatre. We strive to serve our community by promoting excellence in the arts, by supporting our fellow thespians, and by
providing opportunities in the arts to all members of our community.
Did you know that students who participate in the arts tend to have higher grades in school than those who do not? These same students
also tend to have fewer discipline problems. Did you know that participating in performing arts can help foster an atmosphere of
belonging and tolerance for participants of all ages? Participating in the performing can help to build character and can change people’s
lives in meaningful ways, regardless of age.
The New Octavians offer both group and private lessons in piano, voice, dance, and theatre for students of all ages. We offer young
elementary students the opportunity to experience musical theatre through a summer camp. Being an accredited community theatre
organization, we offer both students and adults the opportunity to participate in theatrical productions of popular known titles in a real,
working theater.
If you are as passionate about the performing arts as we are, you will realize that planning for the future is critical. With your help, we will
continue to provide these unique opportunities for the young people of the Northshore. We need you now! Please invest in our community
today. Any donation amount is very much appreciated, and we do offer sponsorship packages, as listed below. Donations can be made
online through our website or by mail at our PO Box, both listed above. All donations are tax deductible, and receipts will be provided.
Thank you for taking the time to consider our request.
Best regards,
Brent A. Goodrich
Executive and Artistic Director
Levels of Business Sponsorship 2021-2022 Season
Overture: $250
● Ad in all Playbills
● Business name listed on website and Facebook page
● Two tickets for all Columbia Theatre shows in the 2021-2022
season
Curtain Call: $1,000
● Ad in all Playbills
● Business name listed on website and Facebook page
● Four tickets for all Columbia Theatre shows and two tickets
for all studio shows in the 2021-2022 season
● Advertising at the New Octavians’ studio
Spotlight: $500
● Ad in all Playbills
● Business name listed on website and Facebook page
● Two tickets for all Columbia Theatre shows and all studio
shows in the 2021-2022 season
● Advertising at the New Octavians’ studio
Standing Ovation: $1,500 and above
● Ad in all Playbills
● Business name listed on website and Facebook page
● Four tickets for all Columbia Theatre shows and all studio
shows in the 2021-2022 season
● Advertising at the New Octavians’ studio
● $10 concessions voucher for all studio shows in the
2021-2022 season